---
title: "Formal Regionalization of Bangladesh: Dependency on Agro-based Industry"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-10-01-formal-regionalization-of-bangladesh-dependency-on-agro-based-industry
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 2. The number 3 is left for future work.'
date: 2018-10-01
venue: 'Annual Conference in Regional Science (ACRS2)'
paperurl: 'https://www.researchgate.net/publication/329541547_Formal_Regionalization_of_Bangladesh_Dependency_on_Agro-based_Industry'
citation: 'Juy, Nishat Akter and Akter, Afrina and Das, Anutosh and Zubayer, Md Sakib,. &quot;Paper Title Number 2.&quot; <i>Annual Conference in Regional Science (ACRS2)</i>'
---

Being favorable climatic condition, Bangladesh has a great opportunity in agro-based industrial sector.  About 75% of rural people are engaged with agricultural activities in Bangladesh. Being the  main  activity,  agriculture  had  a  significant  contribution  to  the  national  economy  of Bangladesh. Again it’s  become vulnerable due  to natural  disaster.  So it’s  a crying need  to  find out the regions vulnerability. Several researches show that, in spite of technological advances, agro-based industries had enormous potentiality and scope for adding value in national income. Thus, the aim of the study is to delineate the regions of Bangladesh formally on the basis of agro-based industries dependency. For regionalization, factor analysis method is used in which five factors are considered. Factors are: total agro-based industry, engaged person, percentage of individual  agro-based  industry,  total  cultivated  area  and  total  population.  Each  region  is evaluating  according to  its  individual dependency  on agro-based  industries.  Findings of  this paper is  the actual  dependency on  agro-based industry  of each  region  of Bangladesh  with a visual  representation  in  GIS  map.  This  paper  is  useful  for  further  researches  that  regard to agricultural studies and its possible potentialities. This study will work as a guideline to make sustainable agricultural planning and to take possible measures for deficiency in agriculture by measuring agro-based industry dependency.
